An Analysis of Kickstarter Campaigns

Overview Of Project
The purpose of this analysis is to use Kickstarter data to uncover trends, and help budding playwright, Louise, gain some insight on how to launch a successful kickstarter campaign. Louise hopes to raise a goal of $10,000 to fund her play "Fever," and would like to know what factors would help to plan a campaign to meet her funding goal.

Analysis and Challenges
I performed my analysis using Excel functions to filter out data, making it relevant to what exactly Louise was hoping to find out and as well as charts to visually represent the data. The challenges I encountered were navigating a new Excel formula and understanding its function as well as limitations. The COUNTIFS formula specifically, is the one that I used create a line chart and it was on that I had never used before. It took a bit of Google-ing as well as asking classmates for clarification on Slack to get the function to work. Once I understood the criteria to have it function properly and what I was missing, I was able to create a working chart. I was initially missing the filter aspect of my formula, so it was pulling from all data, and not just the "plays" data that is relevant to this project. This was an easy fix because one can just add it to the COUNTIFS function Another challenge, was how quickly errors can occur based on typos. This reminded me to take my time and read carefully before copying formulas.

Results
Based on this analysis of launch dates, it would be best for Louise to launch her Kickstarter campaign in the spring or summer months. May being the month with the highest number of successful campaigns, Louise should aim to launch hers in May as well. This trend makes sense as the warmer weather encourages more activities. Louise should avoid launching her campaign in December over half the number of campaigns were either failed or cancelled. Since this is a fundraising campaign, it's understandable that people are already spending for the holidays (gifts, travel, etc.), and are less likely to contribute. In addition, review of the data of total amounts of campaign goals shows that small campaigns with lower than $5000 total goals had highest success rate. The campaigns with the second highest success rate were $35,000 to just under $50,000. Louise only needs $10,000 to reach her funding goal, so she could possibly hold two smaller campaigns to ensure success. There are limitations of the data in the sense that I can only give Louise data about the amounts and times of the year to hold a kickstarter campaign but not what to actually do to raise the funds. There is no information about what was used such as raffle, bake sales etc., to raise money so it would be up to Louise to think of a better idea. Perhaps data or a graph of what actually was used to raise the funds would help Louise more.
